Devan E. Kestel

devan.kestel@gmail.com
617.233.2629

  * Github: http://www.github.com/devankestel
  * Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/devankestel
  * Tumblr: http://devankestel.tumblr.com

The Iron Yard
Rails Engineering
August 2015

University of Notre Dame du Lac
M.S. in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
May 2010
Thermodynamic Research of Ionic Liquids Group (ThRILs)
                                             Adviser: Dr. Joan Brennecke

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
B.S. in Chemical Engineering, minor in Spanish
June 2007
All chemical engineering courses relied heavily upon MATLAB and data science principles. Other relevant course: Intro to Python.

Dupont Performance Coatings
                                             (Now Axalta Coatings Systems)
Senior Chemical Engineer
February 2011 - April 2015

  * Product formulation, optimization, and technical support of solventborne and waterborne automotive coatings for General Motors accounts with revenue exceeding $30MM annually.
  * In addition to research and development, interface with manufacturing, quality assurance, sales and marketing, product stewardship, and field account teams on a daily basis.
  * Work in a high­pressured, multi­tasking environment with constantly changing priorities and frequently required to make "on the spot" decisions that directly impact manufacturing at both Axalta and GM sites.
  * Serve on site team of internal quality auditors. Audit 6 areas per year against ISO:9001 and TS­16949 standards. Interview exempt and non­exempt employees across all shifts.

University of Notre Dame du Lac
Graduate Research Assistant
October 2007 - March 2010

  * Thermophysical property measurement and estimation of ionic liquid systems for use as environmentally benign working fluids for carbon dioxide capture.
  * Worked in a hybrid experimental and computational team to rapidly screen and characterize candidate ionic liquids for process optima including: relative volatility and solubility, hydrophobicity, corrosivity, toxicity, reaction and absorption enthalpies, and others properties relevant to process scale­up.

Alltech, Inc.
Chemical Engineering Intern
June 2004 - August 2006

  * Product development, process design, and pilot plant management for Optigen, a controlled­-release, non­protein nitrogen supplement for dairy cattle which is now commercialized.

